“That's why I keep moving on, to see the next thing, and the next, and the next. And sometimes... It looks even better through your eyes.”
“Because that’s the astonishing thing about the people from her planet, they can believe two completely different things at exactly the same time.”
“Whole worlds pivot on acts of imagination.”
“Letting it get to you. You know what that’s called? Being alive. Best thing there is. Being alive right now is all that counts.”
“There’s no point in being grown up if you can’t be childish sometimes.”
"When did you last have the pleasure of smelling a flower, watching a sunset, eating a well-prepared meal?”
“Human progress isn’t measured by industry. It’s measured by the value you place on a life. An unimportant life. A life without privilege. The boy who died on the river, that boy's value is your value. That's what defines an age. That's what defines a species. ”
“Time travel is like visiting Paris. You can't just read the guidebook. You've got to throw yourself in! Eat the food, use the wrong verbs, get charged double and end up kissing complete strangers! Or is that just me?”
"I'm not running away from things. I'm running to them before they flare and fade forever. That's all right. Our lives would never remain the same. They can't. One day, soon, maybe, you'll stop. I've known you for a while.”
“There’s always something to look at if you open your eyes!”
“Lives change worlds. People can save planets or wreck them. That’s the choice. Be the best of humanity.”
“Life depends on change, and renewal.”
“Some people live more in 20 years than others do in 80. It’s not the time that matters, it’s the person.”
“The way I see it, every life is a pile of good things and bad things. The good things don’t always soften the bad things, but vice versa, the bad things don’t always spoil the good things or make them unimportant.”
“Nothing’s sad until it’s over, and then everything is.”
“Everything’s got to end sometime. Otherwise, nothing would ever get started.”
"Love, in all its forms, is the most powerful weapon we have. Because love is a form of hope. And like hope, love abides. In the face of everything"
“You want weapons? We’re in a library! The best weapons in the world!”
“We’re all stories, in the end. Just make it a good one, eh?”
“Courage isn’t just a matter of not being frightened, you know. It’s being afraid and doing what you have to do anyway.”
"We’re capable of the most incredible change. We can evolve while still staying true to who we are. We can honour who we’ve been and choose who we want to be next. Now’s your chance.”
“Because every time you see them happy you remember how sad they’re going to be. And it breaks your heart. Because what’s the point in them being happy if they’re going to be sad later? The answer is, of course, because they are going to be sad later.”
“Never be cruel. Never be cowardly. Hate is always foolish. Love is always wise. Always try to be nice, but never fail to be kind.”
“Sometimes, the only choices you have are bad ones, but you still have to choose.”
“I could show you everything if you stop being afraid of what you don’t understand.”
“Every great decision creates ripples, like a huge boulder dropped in a lake. The ripples merge and rebound off the banks in unforeseeable ways. The heavier the decision, the larger the waves, the more uncertain the consequences.”
“A straight line may be the shortest distance between two points, but it is by no means the most interesting.”
“You can always judge a man by the quality of his enemies”
“In 900 years of time and space, I’ve never met anyone who wasn’t important”
“There must be no regrets, no tears, no anxieties. Just go forward in all your beliefs, and prove to me that I am not mistaken in mine.”
“Who I am is where I stand. Where I stand is where I fall.”
“We invest things with significance. So while the whole of creation was turning around her, it made her sheer existence more powerful than Time Lords and gods. In the end, the most important person in the universe... was the most ordinary.”
“You think that life is a balance between order and chaos. But the universe is not binary. Far from it. There is order. And chaos. And there is play.”
“We're all dead eventually. There's hardly any time that we're not dead. Which is a good thing, too. We've got to keep the pace up, otherwise nothing would get done. Dying defines us. Snow isn't snow until it falls.”
“Bowties are cool”
